## What causes E_STRICT errors in PHP

Some months ago this question came up on my work. We asked our self what kind of errors causes an _E_STRICT_ error. The naive approach was to search the [php.net][1]. But I didn’t find anything about that. Yes there is some information what number _E_STRICT_ has and that it causes errors if you don’t satisfy the strict standards and it’s important to be future compatible. But why? And what?

Then I thought: Ok, to implement this feature (_E_STRICT_ standard) they needed a list for what they will throw an _E_STRICT_ error. I asked Google. What i found was not really helpful. Only a not exhaustive list on [pear.php.net][2]. I wonder how they can implement something such _E_STRICT_, if they don’t have a list for that. Are they still hacking on without thinking about what to do?

So I gathered the sparely information from the web and started to grep the PHP source code. So I can present a hopefully exhaustive list what causes _E_STRICT_ errors:

- when static methods are declared as abstract
- when non-static methods are called static
- when a static property is accessed dynamically
- when assigning new with reference

<pre>$foo =& new Foo();</pre>

- if you use <code>is_a()</code> instead of <code>instanceof</code> (in 5.2, in 5.3 undeprecated&hellip;)
- if you use var instead of <code>private/protected/public</code> for class properties
- if method declaration/signature of overridden methods differ
- if you declare both the PHP4 and PHP5 constructor in a class
- if you use “Automagic Objects”

<pre>$notInitializedYet->foo = 'bar';</pre>

- if you assign function/method return values as reference

<pre>$foo =& bar();</pre>

- if you pass function/method return values as reference to a function/method

<pre>foo(bar()); //if function foo(&$aReference { &hellip; }</pre>

- if resources are casted implicit to an integer

<pre>$row[$query_id] = mysql_fetch_array($query_id);
// if get_type($query_id) == 'resource'</pre>

- if <code>mktime()</code> is called without parameter. You should use <code>time()</code> instead
- if you call <code>mysqli_next_result()/mysqli::next_result()</code> although there are no further results. You should test with <code>mysqli_more_results()/mysqli::more_results()</code> before
- and last but not least: If you don’t set a default timezone (neither in Code nor in php.ini)

[1]: http://php.net/
[2]: http://pear.php.net/